.TH GOMACS 1 "2026-03-14" "f02de65-dirty" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gomacs \- a TTY Emacs clone written in Go
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gomacs
[\fI\-Q\fR]
[\fIfile\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gomacs
is a terminal-only Emacs-compatible editor.
It supports gap-buffer text storage, unlimited undo, syntax highlighting,
Emacs Lisp configuration, Language Server Protocol (LSP) integration,
and a Dired file manager.
.PP
Key bindings follow GNU Emacs conventions.  An Emacs Lisp init file is
loaded at startup from
.B ~/.gomacs
or
.B ~/.config/gomacs/init.el
(whichever is found first).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-Q
Skip loading the init file.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
.SS Movement
.TS
l l.
C\-f / C\-b	Forward / backward character
C\-n / C\-p	Next / previous line
M\-f / M\-b	Forward / backward word
C\-a / C\-e	Beginning / end of line
M\-< / M\->	Beginning / end of buffer
C\-v / M\-v	Scroll down / up
M\-g g	Go to line
.TE
.SS Editing
.TS
l l.
C\-d	Delete character forward
DEL	Delete character backward
M\-d	Kill word forward
M\-DEL	Kill word backward
C\-k	Kill to end of line
C\-w	Kill region
M\-w	Copy region
C\-y	Yank (paste)
M\-y	Yank pop (cycle kill ring)
C\-/	Undo
C\-x C\-u / C\-x C\-l	Upcase / downcase region
M\-q	Fill paragraph
M\-t	Transpose words
M\-^	Join line
M\-m	Back to indentation
C\-x C\-o	Delete blank lines
TAB	Indent line / complete
.TE
.SS Search and Replace
.TS
l l.
C\-s	Incremental search forward
C\-r	Incremental search backward
M\-%	Query replace
M\-x replace\-string	Replace string (no prompting)
.TE
.SS Windows and Buffers
.TS
l l.
C\-x 2	Split window below
C\-x 3	Split window right
C\-x o	Other window
C\-x 1	Delete other windows
C\-x b	Switch buffer
C\-x k	Kill buffer
C\-x C\-f	Find (open) file
C\-x C\-s	Save buffer
C\-x C\-w	Write file (save as)
.TE
.SS LSP
.TS
l l.
M\-.	Go to definition
M\-,	Pop back from definition
C\-c C\-r	Rename symbol
.TE
.SS Dired (C\-x d)
.TS
l l.
n / p	Next / previous file
f / e / RET	Open file or directory
o	Open in other window
d	Mark for deletion
u	Unmark
x	Execute deletions
g	Refresh listing
^	Go to parent directory
q	Quit dired
.TE
.SS Help
.TS
l l.
C\-h k	Describe key
C\-h f	Describe function
C\-h v	Describe variable
.TE
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is written in Emacs Lisp and placed in
.B ~/.gomacs
or
.BR ~/.config/gomacs/init.el .
.PP
.SS Configurable variables
.TP
.B fill\-column
Target column for
.BR M\-q " (fill\-paragraph)."
Default: 70.
Example: \fB(setq fill\-column 80)\fR
.TP
.B go\-indent
Per\-level indentation string for Go buffers.
An integer is expanded to that many spaces; a string is used verbatim.
Default: a tab character.
Example: \fB(setq go\-indent "    ")\fR
.TP
.B isearch\-case\-insensitive
When non\-nil (the default), isearch matches case\-insensitively.
Set to \fBnil\fR to restore case\-sensitive search.
Example: \fB(setq isearch\-case\-insensitive nil)\fR
.TP
.B java\-indent
Per\-level indentation string for Java buffers.
Default: two spaces.
Example: \fB(setq java\-indent 4)\fR
.TP
.B json\-indent
Per\-level indentation string for JSON buffers.
Default: two spaces.
Example: \fB(setq json\-indent 4)\fR
.TP
.B markdown\-indent
Per\-level indentation string for Markdown buffers.
Default: two spaces.
Example: \fB(setq markdown\-indent 4)\fR
.TP
.B python\-indent
Per\-level indentation string for Python buffers.
Default: two spaces.
Example: \fB(setq python\-indent 4)\fR
.TP
.B sh\-indent
Per\-level indentation string for Bash/sh buffers.
Default: two spaces.
Example: \fB(setq sh\-indent 4)\fR
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.gomacs
Primary Emacs Lisp init file.
.TP
.B ~/.config/gomacs/init.el
Alternative init file location (XDG style).
.SH AUTHORS
Torstein Krause Johansen <torstein@skybert.net>
.SH VERSION
f02de65-dirty
